OSDOCS#9530: Allow ROSA classic installer policy to be restricted using permission boundary for byo VPC (#76039)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-sts-aws-requirements-attaching-boundary-policy.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_planning/rosa-sts-ocm-role.adoc
// * rosa_architecture/rosa-sts-about-iam-resources.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-sts-aws-requirements-attaching-boundary-policy_{context}"]

> = Permission boundaries for the Installer role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Permission boundaries for the installer role
```

        "PolicyName": "rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy",
        "PolicyId": "<Policy ID>",
        "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::<account ID>:policy/rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy",
        "Path": "/",
        "DefaultVersionId": "v1",
        "AttachmentCount": 0,
        "PermissionsBoundaryUsageCount": 0,
        "IsAttachable": true,
        "CreateDate": "<CreateDate>",
        "UpdateDate": "<UpdateDate>"
    }
}
----
. Add the permission boundary policy to the installer role you want to restrict by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam put-role-permissions-boundary \
--role-name ManagedOpenShift-Installer-Role \
--permissions-boundary arn:aws:iam::<account ID>:policy/rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy
----

. Display the installer role to validate attached policies (including permissions boundary) by entering the following command in the `rosa` CLI:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam get-role --role-name ManagedOpenShift-Installer-Role \
--output text | grep PERMISSIONSBOUNDARY
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
PERMISSIONSBOUNDARY	arn:aws:iam::<account ID>:policy/rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy	Policy
----
+

> For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_boundaries.html[Permissions boundaries for IAM entities] (AWS documentation).

Reviewer: This link seems a bit hidden with the surrounding content. I still think adding it to the add resources section would make the link more prominent.

Author: moved this link to add resources, thanks

+
For more examples of PL and VPC permission boundary policies see:
+

> .`sts_installer_privatelink_permission_boundary_policy.json`

Author: left as is with SRE and PM review

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_planning/rosa-sts-ocm-role.adoc
// * rosa_architecture/rosa-sts-about-iam-resources.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-sts-aws-requirements-attaching-boundary-policy_{context}"]

> = Permission Boundaries for the Installer Role

Author: thanks for suggestion

You can apply a policy as a _permissions boundary_ on a role.

> You can use an AWS-managed policy or a customer-managed policy to set the boundary for an IAM entity (user or role). The policy limits the maximum permissions for the user or role. ROSA includes a set of three prepared permission boundary policy files, with which you can restrict permissions for the installer role since changing the installer policy itself is not supported.

Author: @arendej will we rename installer everywhere as "Installation program"?

> You can use an AWS-managed policy or a customer-managed policy to set the boundary for an IAM entity (user or role). The policy limits the maximum permissions for the user or role. ROSA includes a set of three prepared permission boundary policy files, with which you can restrict permissions for the installer role since changing the installer policy itself is not supported.

Author: Aaren confirmed this is not necessary as "this has nothing to do with the assisted installer", so no need for change

> The boundary policy files are as follows:

Author: replaced in a few places thanks...

> * The _core_ boundary policy file contains the minimum permissions needed for ROSA (classic architecture) installer to install a cluster.

Author: thanks

> * The _core_ boundary policy file contains the minimum permissions needed for ROSA (classic architecture) installer to install a cluster.

Reviewer 2: 'installer' in the case of ROSA, is a word to describe numerous interworking systems that install a ROSA cluster.  'installation program' is not entirely accurate for this.

> * The _core_ boundary policy file contains the minimum permissions needed for ROSA (classic architecture) installer to install a cluster.

Author: PM asked to leave installer but I did update with {product title}

> If you need to install a cluster with the most restricted permissions, only use this permission boundary policy and there would be no VPC or PrivateLink (PL) permissions for the installer role.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this suggestion reads quite right. The core policy should be used by itself if the customer is providing a VPC (BYO-VPC), and does not need PrivateLink. All cluster installs have a VPC, it will either need to be provided by the customer, OR created by the installer (which when using a permission boundary would require the VPC permission set + core permission set).

> If you need to install a cluster with the most restricted permissions, only use this permission boundary policy and there would be no VPC or PrivateLink (PL) permissions for the installer role.

Author: what do you suggest @fahlmant please

> If you need to install a cluster with the most restricted permissions, only use this permission boundary policy and there would be no VPC or PrivateLink (PL) permissions for the installer role.

Author: discussed in slack and came up with new content

* The _VPC_ boundary policy file contains the minimum permissions needed for ROSA (classic architecture) installer to create/manage the VPC. It does not include permissions for PL or core installation. If you need to install a cluster with enough permissions for the installer to install the cluster and create/manage the VPC, but you do not need to set up PL, then use the core and VPC boundary files together with the installer role.

> * The _PrivateLink (PL)_ boundary policy file contains the minimum permissions needed for ROSA (classic architecture) installer to create the AWS PL with a cluster. It does not include permissions for VPC or core installation. If you want to install a cluster with PL, it requires a custom VPC, so you would need the PL and the core installation permissions.

Reviewer 3: To be clearer, say something like "All PrivateLink clusters require a pre-created VPC to be provided at installation time". In other words, PrivateLink clusters require BYO-VPC

When using the boundary policy files, the following combinations apply:

> * No permission boundary policies = the current installer policy permissions.

Reviewer 3: Maybe "full installer policy permissions"?

> * *Core only* = most restricted; VPC and PL permissions are not available to the installer role.

Reviewer: Please apply similar changes to the remaining entries.

** Installer cannot create or manage the VPC or PL.

> ** You must have a customer-provided VPC, and PL is not available, which means this cannot be for a private cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** You must have a customer-provided VPC, and PrivateLink is not available. 
```

Reviewer 2: @fahlmant I wanted to call out the "no private cluster" concept here so it's super clear.    Do you think it's enough to have it as suggested?

Reviewer 3: PrivateLink and Private clusters are two different things for ROSA Classic and OSD.

Author: implemented Taylor suggestion of removing ref to private cluster.

* *Core + VPC* = core and VPC permissions are available to the installer role.
** Installer cannot create or manage the PL.
** Assumes you are not using custom/BYO-VPC.
** Assumes the installer will create and manage the VPC.
* *Core + PrivateLink (PL)* = The installer can provision the PL infrastructure.
** You must have a customer-provided VPC.
** This is for a private cluster with PL.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> To use the permission boundaries provided for this, you will need to prepare the boundary policy and add it to your relevant installer role in AWS IAM.

Reviewer: "this" is a vague referrent and the noun should be clearly stated.

> While the ROSA (`rosa`) CLI offers a _permission boundary_ function, it applies to _all_ roles and not just the installer-role, which means it does not work with the provided permission boundary policies (which are only for the installer-role/policy).

Reviewer: "_all_" is slightly distracting from the surrounding information and lowers its importance. I think it's best to drop highlighting this word.

> While the ROSA (`rosa`) CLI offers a _permission boundary_ function, it applies to _all_ roles and not just the installer-role, which means it does not work with the provided permission boundary policies (which are only for the installer-role/policy).

Reviewer: > While the ROSA (`rosa`) CLI offers a permission boundary function that applies to all roles, the CLI does not work with the provided permission boundary policies, which are only for the installer-role/policy.

Slash means "or" here so it should be removed?

Installer role or policy.

> While the ROSA (`rosa`) CLI offers a _permission boundary_ function, it applies to _all_ roles and not just the installer-role, which means it does not work with the provided permission boundary policies (which are only for the installer-role/policy).

Reviewer 3: Just needs "installer role"

> While the ROSA (`rosa`) CLI offers a _permission boundary_ function, it applies to _all_ roles and not just the installer-role, which means it does not work with the provided permission boundary policies (which are only for the installer-role/policy).

Author: all applied

====

.Prerequisites

* You have an AWS account.
* You have the permissions required to administer AWS roles and policies.
* You have installed and configured the latest AWS (`aws`) and ROSA (`rosa`) CLIs on your workstation.

> * You have already prepared your ROSA account-wide roles (includes the installer role) and corresponding policies. If they do not exist in your AWS account, see creating the account-wide STS roles and policies in _Additional Resources_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have already prepared your ROSA account-wide roles, includes the installer role, and the corresponding policies. If these do not exist in your AWS account, see "Creating the account-wide STS roles and policies" in _Additional Resources_.
```

.Procedure

> This procedure is applicable for an installer role and policy with the most restriction of permissions, using only the _core_ installer permission boundary policy for ROSA. You can complete this with the AWS console or the AWS CLI. This example uses the AWS CLI and the following policy:

Author: moved it to the intro

.`sts_installer_core_permission_boundary_policy.json`
[%collapsible]
====
[source,json]
----
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
		    "autoscaling:DescribeAutoScalingGroups",

> 		    "ec2:AllocateAddress",

Author: thanks will see what SRE thinks

--description "ROSA installer core permission boundary policy, the minimum permission set, allows BYO-VPC, disallows PrivateLink"
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
{
    "Policy": {
        "PolicyName": "rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy",
        "PolicyId": "<Policy ID>",
        "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::<account ID>:policy/rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy",
        "Path": "/",
        "DefaultVersionId": "v1",
        "AttachmentCount": 0,
        "PermissionsBoundaryUsageCount": 0,
        "IsAttachable": true,
        "CreateDate": "<CreateDate>",
        "UpdateDate": "<UpdateDate>"
    }
}
----
. Add the permission boundary policy to the installer role you want to restrict, by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam put-role-permissions-boundary \
--role-name ManagedOpenShift-Installer-Role \
--permissions-boundary arn:aws:iam::<account ID>:policy/rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy
----

. Display the installer role to validate attached policies (including permissions boundary), by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam get-role --role-name ManagedOpenShift-Installer-Role \

> --output text |grep PERMISSIONSBOUNDARY

Author: @fahlmant and @dakotalongRH  and @arendej is this correct? to add a space in the command before `grep`

> --output text |grep PERMISSIONSBOUNDARY

Author: AAren confirmed space is fine, so made the change

> --output text |grep PERMISSIONSBOUNDARY

Author: changed

----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
PERMISSIONSBOUNDARY	arn:aws:iam::<account ID>:policy/rosa-core-permissions-boundary-policy	Policy
----

> For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_boundaries.html[Permissions boundaries for IAM entities] in the AWS documentation.

Reviewer: Add to additonal resources section.

```suggestion
For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_boundaries.html[Permissions boundaries for IAM entities] (AWS documentation).
```

[Guidance](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#lead-in-link-sentence-style-for-the-link-attribute)

> For more permission boundary policies see:

Reviewer: What follows from here on in seems to confuse the procedural flow. Indentation and a detailed lead-in sentence could state that these are more examples applicable to X?

Author: indented and added more detail, thanks

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_planning/rosa-sts-ocm-role.adoc
// * rosa_architecture/rosa-sts-about-iam-resources.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-sts-aws-requirements-attaching-boundary-policy_{context}"]
= Attaching a boundary policy to an IAM role

You can apply a policy as a _permissions boundary_ on a role.
You can use an AWS-managed policy or a customer-managed policy to set the boundary for an IAM entity (user or role). That policy limits the maximum permissions for the user or role.

When using the boundary policy files:

* *core + VPC* = create VPC permissions are enabled
** Installer cannot create or manage the Privatelink (PL).
** Assumes you are not using BYO-VPC.

> ** Assumes the installer is using create or manage the VPC.

Author: applied new suggestion from Aaren from a gdoc

* *core + PrivateLink (PL) + VPC* = Privatelink (PL) permissions are enabled

> ** Assumes you want to use PL for a private cluster and also requires BYO-VPC.

Reviewer 4: I believe this is incorrect - if they're providing VPC permissions, then we would _not_ expect a BYOVPC cluster.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/rosa-troubleshooting-iam-resources.adoc
// * rosa_planning/rosa-sts-ocm-role.adoc

> // * rosa_planning/rosa-sts-aws-prereqs.adoc

Author: It is in `planning` and `architecture`: https://76039--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-rosa/latest/rosa_architecture/rosa-sts-about-iam-resources.html#rosa-sts-aws-requirements-attaching-boundary-policy_rosa-sts-about-iam-resources? is that what you mena @bhardesty

> // * rosa_planning/rosa-sts-aws-prereqs.adoc

Reviewer 5: @fmcdonal Yep! Sorry, I wasn't clear: I meant that if it's included in `architecture/`, then you should add it to the "where's used" list.

> // * rosa_planning/rosa-sts-aws-prereqs.adoc

Author: thanks done

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-sts-aws-requirements-attaching-boundary-policy_{context}"]
= Attaching a boundary policy to an IAM role

> You can apply a policy as a *permissions boundary* on a role.

Author: complete

You can use an AWS managed policy or a customer managed policy to set the boundary for an IAM entity (user or role). That policy limits the maximum permissions for the user or role.

When using the boundary policy files:

* *core + VPC* = create VPC permissions are enabled

> ** Installer cannot perform Privatelink (PL) create/manage.

Author: made changes in a few places

> ** Assumes the customer is NOT using BYO-BVPC.

Author: made numerous replacements of "customer" to "you"

** Assumes the installer is using create/manage the VPC.

* *core + PrivateLink (PL) + VPC* = Privatelink (PL) permissions are enabled
** Assumes the customer wants to use PL for a private cluster and also requires BYO-VPC.
** PL without BYO-VPC is not supported.

> ** Installer cannot do VPC create/manage = customer/BYO-VPC.

Author: Changed to "Installer cannot create or manage the VPC = customer/BYO-VPC."

|===
|Policy|Description

|`ManagedOpenShift-VPC-Permissions-Boundary-Policy``
|Apply the IAM policy as a permission boundary on a role and it provides the ROSA installer with the permissions required to complete cluster installation tasks.

|===
+
.`sts_installer_vpc_permission_boundary_policy.json`
[%collapsible]
====
[source,json]
----
{
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
		    "ec2:AssociateDhcpOptions",
		    "ec2:AssociateRouteTable",
		    "ec2:AttachInternetGateway",
		    "ec2:CreateDhcpOptions",
		    "ec2:CreateInternetGateway",
		    "ec2:CreateNatGateway",
		    "ec2:CreateRouteTable",
		    "ec2:CreateSubnet",
		    "ec2:CreateVpc",
		    "ec2:DeleteDhcpOptions",
		    "ec2:DeleteInternetGateway",
		    "ec2:DeleteNatGateway",
		    "ec2:DeleteRouteTable",
		    "ec2:DeleteSubnet",
		    "ec2:DeleteVpc",
		    "ec2:DetachInternetGateway",
		    "ec2:DisassociateRouteTable",
		    "ec2:ModifySubnetAttribute",
		    "ec2:ModifyVpcAttribute",
		    "ec2:ReplaceRouteTableAssociation"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
----
====
+
[NOTE]
====

> Policies pass their json file as a permission boundary in the ROSA (`rosa`) CLI where the installer policy contains a custom boundary.

Reviewer 5: If you can, try to avoid anthropomorphism (here, policies are "passing" something). That might involve some passive voice, but possibly something like this:

```suggestion
For each policy, permission boundaries are passed as JSON files in the ROSA (`rosa`) CLI where the installer policy contains a custom boundary.
```

====
+
<3> Optional: Specify a custom ARN path for your account-wide roles. The path must contain alphanumeric characters only and start and end with `/`, for example `/test/path/dev/`. For more information about ARN paths, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html[Amazon Resource Names (ARNs)] in the AWS documentation.

> <4> Select the role creation mode. In `manual` mode, the ROSA CLI generates the `aws` commands needed to create the roles and policies. In `manual` mode, the corresponding policy JSON files are also saved to the current directory. `manual` mode enables you to review the details before running the `aws` commands manually. `Auto` mode automatically creates the OpenShift Cluster Manager IAM role and links it to your Red Hat organization account.

Reviewer 5: Should `Auto` be `auto`?

For "OpenShift Cluster Manager", I think you can use an attribute.

"Red Hat" should be "Red{nbsp}Hat". See https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#non-breaking-spaces.
